how do their internet people it's Bo
again we've talked about a lot of
controversial things in these videos
this may prove to be the most
controversial on them all
I've been asked to do this at least 40
times I've put it off and put it off
because it's a very in-depth subject and
it's been ruined by talking points on
both sides so many talking points that
nobody's talking about it we're going to
talk about guns where's my guns we're
gonna talk about gun control the good
the bad the ugly we're gonna talk about
the Second Amendment we're going to talk
about school shootings and right now
there's a whole bunch of people out
there that are pro-gun that are like oh
yeah hillbilly is about to school these
liberals on guns I am
I'm definitely educated but I'm an
educated with the intent of them using
that education to hopefully come up with
some gun control that makes sense now
you man and that's okay because your
Second Amendment that sacred Second
Amendment we're going to talk about that
tip and we're going to talk about the
fact that odds are if you constantly
describe yourself as a law-abiding gun
owner you're probably part of the
problem so three types of people in the
world pro-gun anti-gun and those who
understand how firearms work so we're
going to talk about firearms we're going
to use the an example that everybody in
the United States knows one gun that
everybody knows because the media won't
shut up about it we're gonna talk about
the ar-15 now this is a toy I bought
this at Dollar General
yesterday want to try to film this video
the first time got so long and even I
didn't want to watch it that's why we're
doing it in two sections so reason about
it that's because one it looks just like
it
I mean it's accurate it's scary accurate
even more scary everything works the
magazine released the selector switch I
mean the charging handle the forward
assist I mean it's even got the bolt
release on it I mean there's
Boult inside but it's there I mean this
is amazing a little small but extremely
accurate representation so they are 15
nerves at the m16
you can't tell really by looking at it
they look the same they really do in
fact if you were to walk into a gun
store and one odds are the guy's gonna
have to look right here right at the
receiver at the selector switch to see
what it is but there's an audible
difference between the two the ar-15
which is the civilian one sounds like
this that's fast and you can get rounds
off that fast in real life that is fast
the m16 the military version sounds like
this that's a whole lot faster has a
cyclic rate of 700 to 950 rounds a
minute that's that's a lot of bullets so
what makes it special I mean it's a
military weapon even even the civilian
was based on the military design
therefore it's high-powered right no not
at all
this is actually a low power low
intermediate is what I would classify it
as the most most gun sights will tell
you that it is it's a varmint God but in
reality the bullet 223 years of army
round
it's low intermediate it's not really
low though that doesn't make any sense
why on earth would the army want a low
powered rifle
they didn't Army didn't walk this okay
they were forced to take it by some bean
counters in DoD up at the Pentagon see
what happened was these guys got
together and they figured if the midden
bullets smaller you could fit more in
the magazine therefore you can shoot
more in between changing magazines kill
more the bad guy faster therefore when
the war faster and that makes sense
if you have never shot at anybody and
never changed a magazine that makes
sense if you have okay so if it's not
high-powered must be high-tech that's
why the military wanted
that's why DoD wanted when Eugene stoner
designed this thing put it together he
designed it to be used by the dumbest 17
year old kids you know and that's not a
joke really one of his goals I want you
to think about everybody joins the army
they're not all geniuses but everyone in
the world knows how to use this it's not
high tech it's not high powered why is
it so special it's not that's the point
there's nothing special about this thing
you talk to most serious shooters there
nobody's gonna point to this thing as
like some great crowning achievement
it's a decent it's a very great generic
my basic rifle it's modular that's cool
it's got a lot of variations well if
it's not that great why does it get used
in all these school shootings and all
these mass shootings it doesn't it
doesn't matter life um problem is the
media can't identify firearms they think
anything with a magazine well a pistol
grip in a magazine is an ar-15
especially if it's black so they say
that in the initial reporting and then
you know by the time they correct it it
doesn't matter so it seems like this is
what's always used that's not really the
case but it gets used often enough for
this to be the example of what we're
talking about why why is he use more
than most because it's popular not just
with mass shooters but with everybody
this is the most popular rifle in the
United States why for the same reasons
we just said it's simple it's low power
so it has a low recoil anybody can use
it but then there's another reason that
civilians like it there's two really one
is really smart and one is really stupid
the stupid reason is a bunch of guys
want to get it post their photo on
Facebook like this I got the same gun
Harvey has no you don't you got one who
looks like a smart reason is that
because they're very similar except in
here except in the engine a lot of parts
are interchangeable which means they're
cheap because the Army's producing an
m16 magazine will slide into an ar-15
the stock all the furniture that's the
plastic pieces the barrels I mean
everything pretty much is
interchangeable with the exception of
the stuff inside the receiver the stuff
that makes it full auto that's the only
thing that isn't interchangeable between
an ar-15 is a semi-automatic rifle now I
want you to pull up right now and go to
Google Images type in mini-14
ranked rifle you're gonna look at that
you're gonna say that's a hunting rifle
and it is it's a varmint rifle look at
the caliber 223 same thing rate of fire
same as the ar-15 everything is the same
everything this has been villainized
because of the way it looks partly and
because it gets used in these school
shootings and in these mass shootings a
decent amount not as much as the media
says but certainly more than a mini-14
but it's just because it's more popular
it's more because it's more popular
because basically any gun it has more
than two guns they've got one of these
therefore when some kid wants to shoot
up a school
guess what's sitting in dad's gun
cabinet
said I did a mimic the military it's
that idea and this is a big part of it
let me get into later it's that idea
that this is important so how does it
work on the inside this is a magazine
okay
bullets are inside this box where's the
bolt goes back and forth that picks up
another one puts it in the chamber when
you pull the trigger little pin comes
forward hits it sends it down the barrel
that's how it works
there's nothing difference between the
ar-15 and every other semi-automatic
rifle designed in the last hundred years
they've been around forever they have
been around forever that's important
because it's not the design of this
thing that makes people kill them fairly
recent problem it's probably not this
but there's some things we can do to
mitigate and that's what we're going to
talk about in the next video I know this
one was kind of boring but you need this
base of knowledge to understand what
we're going to talk about next okay
sorry for the boring video but y'all
have a good night